Hey, let's get into a navigation
and a header component.
So that's something that you want pretty often.
So I already have our page component.
Inside of there,
we're likely gonna have a header component
and a NAV component
and you could have a footer component
anything else that needs to show up on every single page.
So let's go over to our components folder
and create a new file,
we'll call it capital H, Header.js
and we'll do the whole...
I'm gonna export default function,
capital H header
and then from that return
and we can return a header tag.
Lowercase means it's HTML tag here.
And then inside of that
let's just save, I am the header.
Good.
You'll notice that my es link does,
it takes it from this return where it's on the same line
in that and it moves it to,
puts a parentheses around it.
Both will work,
but I just like the formatting of this a little bit better.
Now, what we can do,
is go into our Page.js component
and right above our layout here.
We will use our Header component.
By the way, in here,
when I do that, bong!
Bong!
What's happening there is
I am using ess built into vs code.
As is called Emmett Expand Abbreviation.
And that will expand it out to the tag that it is.
I also have a prettier
as if there's nothing inside of that tag
and I hit save.
It will just change it from an open-close
to a let's call it a self-closing tag.
Again, header is not defined.
So can we import that,
I'll hit my control space.
We'll see that it is trying to auto import it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
You'll see it's showing up right there
and there we go.
I am the header.
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful.
So we can close that page down
and let's go into our header here
and we can start templating it out.
So if we take a look at our header here,
we actually have the logo.
We have our NAV
and then we have the search here
that will allow us to search for items.
So the markup here is somewhat important.
We'll have our header tag.
And then inside of that
we have a div with the class of bar
bar.
And it is showing class name here,
sometime in the near future
that we'll be able to do class
but right now it is class name.
And below it we need a div with the class of sub-bar
and that will be important for CSS in the future.
And then in there,
you can just say search,
we'll just put a place holder for our search there.
And then that's what's one thing
I don't like about this auto close
is that auto-close closes my div.s for some reason.
So make sure you don't save it
before you put something inside of it.
In there we will have our logo.
Let's just write Sick Fits.
We'll link it up in just a second.
And then below that,
we are going to have our NAV.
Okay.
So the question is,
Is how do you link from page to page?
Well, you might think.
Okay.
I can just do a href=/
and then we'll put our Sick Fits inside of that
and that should work.
Let's go back to our star thing.
Here we go.
And if I go to the sell page
and I click on it,
it actually works.
But what's happening with that,
is that's a regular old link
and that is actually refreshing the page
every single time that you click a page
like a traditional website.
But what we want,
is we want to be able to move from page to page
as fast as possible,
without actually having to refresh the entire page.
And that's one really cool thing that Next. js does,
is that it uses a combination of HTML5 pushstate
which is changing the URL as well as
the ability to trigger
and rerender pages when that URL has changed.
So what we'll do is instead of using a hrefs in here,
what we use is we use the Next. js capital L, link tag.
And then we'll have to go ahead and import that as well.
It doesn't look like it is trying to auto import for me.
So we'll have to do that manually.
Import.
Capital L Link from next/link.
It might have something to do with the fact
that their packages are /,
that it doesn't work.
But now if I go to my /sell page
and I click on it.
You'll see that it linked it right to the homepage.
See it, see how fast that is.
Boom!
Nice and fast.
It is not reloading.
No errors in our console,
no errors in our terminal.
There is a warning here that we're missing our, <Head/>.
That's fine.
We'll be fixing that in just a second in the next video,
when we get into CSS.
So that is our link, previously on Next. js,
we also had to put an anchor link inside of here
but that is not true anymore,
if you're wondering about that.
Let's make another component here
called NAV capital N, Nav.js
and export default function Nav() return from here,
a NAV tag
that's HTML5 nav Tag
and let's think about all the pages that we want.
We want products.
Let's do lowercase products.
What other pages do we have here?
Sell.
So it'll say sell,
orders,
account
and then we eventually are going
to have cart in the NAV here.
So what we're gonna do
is we're gonna wrap all of those in links.
So I'm gonna use the little fast movie action here.
I'm just selecting all the lines.
I hit command shift L to put a cursor on every single line
and then I'm going to link
href=/
and then I'm gonna copy that text
and put it inside of there.
Oh, that's not what I wanted.
There we go.
And then I will uppercase the first letter.
Good. And let's...
See like that auto import worked on that one!
Who knows?
Sometimes it works.
Sometimes it doesn't.
Okay.
So our NAV is working.
Let's go into our header and import the NAV.
So you might think, Hey Wes,
why are you not putting this in page .js?
Well, it's gonna be part of the header
so we don't need to put it into page .js.
We just need to import it into our header and use it.
So we'll go right here, say NAV
and we'll import it from our NAV file.
And look at this
account,
orders,
sell.
Boom, boom, boom.
Moving from page to page,
looks awesome!
Okay.
So we've got our Sick Fits,
that's going to be the logo.
We have our search bar
and then we have our NAV,
with all the different items in there.
So any time that you wanna link to something
that is part of your website,
you use the link tag.
Anytime you want to link to something
that is outside of your website,
use a regular, a RAF anchor link.
So that is our NAV and our header.
Let's get writing some styles,
so it doesn't look so awful.